# SCSS ToolBox

Frequently used functions and mixins for SCSS projects. No output will be generated by this toolbox.

## Install

Simply use `npm` to install the scss-toolbox.

```bash
$ npm install scss-toolbox
```

## Usage

To use the provided functions and mixins you need to import the `toolbox.scss` file in your project.

```scss
@import 'path/to/toolbox/toolbox.scss';
``` 

The ToolBox comes with some predefined variables and options defined in `src/_config.scss`. In most cases you want to overwrite these predefined variables and options. In order to do so you need to overwrite the corresponding variables in your project.

```scss
$toolbox-colors: (
	'red': #ff0000,
	'blue': #0000ff,
);

// Import the toolbox.scss after all overwritten variables.
@import 'toolbox.scss';
```

**Make sure to overwrite the variables before you include the `toolbox.scss` in your project. Otherwise the default options are applied.**

## Configuration Variables

The ToolBox comes with some predefined variables. Each of them is defined the `!default` attribute so you can overwrite each of them according to your needs. Below is a overview of all predefined variables.

### `$toolbox-breakpoints`

Frequently used breakpoint values. Each entry consists of a identifier and the corresponding viewport width.

```scss
/**
 * Breakpoint identifiers and sizes.
 *
 * @type {Map}
 */
$toolbox-breakpoints: (
    'xs': 500px,
    'sm': 700px,
    'md': 900px,
    'lg': 1100px,
    'xl': 1300px,
    'xxl': 1700px
) !default;
```
**Make sure to remove the `!default` attribute in your own configuration.**

### `$toolbox-colors`

Frequently used color values to be used within the `color()` function. Each entry consists of a identifier and the corresponding color code (hex or rgb value).

```scss
/**
 * Color identifiers and values.
 *
 * @type {Map}
 */
$toolbox-colors: (
    'black': #000000,
    'white': #ffffff
) !default;
```

**Make sure to remove the `!default` attribute in your own configuration.**

### `$toolbox-typo-ratio`

The ratio used by the `font-size()` function. See the `font-size()` function documentation for more information.

```scss
/**
 * Typography ratio.
 *
 * @type {Integer}
 */
$toolbox-typo-ratio: 1.2 !default;
```

**Make sure to remove the `!default` attribute in your own configuration.**

### `$toolbox-typo-sizes`

Font sizes to be used with the `font-size()` function. See the `font-size()` function documentation for more information.

```scss
/**
 * Typography sizes.
 */
$toolbox-typo-sizes: (
    'xxs': -3,
    'xs': -2,
    's': -1,
    'm': 0,
    'l': 1,
    'xl': 2,
    'xxl': 3,
    'xxxl': 4
) !default;
```

**Make sure to remove the `!default` attribute in your own configuration.**

## Functions

### `pow($base, $exp)`

Returns the result of raising `$base` to the power `$exp`.

#### Example:

```scss
pow(2, 8) // returns 256
pow(8, 3) // returns 512
```

### `color($name, [$opacity])`

Returns the hexadecimal or rgba value for the given color `$name` found in `$toolbox-colors`. If `$opacity` is set, the returned color value is an rgba value with the provided transparency.

#### Example:

```scss
.test {
	color: color('black') // returns #000000
}

.test {
	color: color('black', 0.5) // returns rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5)
}
```

### `font-size($name)`

Returns the calculated font-size based on the given multiplier (from `$name` in `$toolbox-typo-sizes`) and the `$toolbox-typo-ratio`.

```scss
.test {
	font-size: font-size('xl') // returns 1.44rem
}

.test {
	font-size: font-size('s') // returns 0.83333rem
}
```

*Font sizes are calculated with the typographic scale. See [type-scale.com](https://type-scale.com) for more information and examples.*

## Mixins

### `breakpoint($query, [$query_max])`

With the breakpoint mixin you can easily use the defined breakpoints from the `$fw-breakpoints-sizes` variable or set some custom breakpoint queries.

The `$query-max` parameter is optional. You can use it to generate a media query for a specific size range. See Example 3 for more details.

Generated media queries are based on `min-width`.

#### Examples

##### Example 1

Change the `background-color` from `red` to `blue` at the `'m'` breakpoint.

```scss
.foo {
	background-color: red;
	
	@include breakpoint('m') {
		background-color: blue;
	}
}
```

**Compiled CSS**

```css
.foo {
	background-color: red;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 768px) {
	.foo {
		background-color: blue;
	}
}
```

##### Example 2

Change the `background-color` from `red` to `blue` at `1050px`.

```scss
.foo {
	background-color: red;

	@include breakpoint(1050px) {
		background-color: blue;
	}
}
```

**Compiled CSS**

```css
.foo {
	background-color: red;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 1050px) {
	.foo {
		background-color: blue;
	}
}
```

##### Example 3

Change the `background-color` from `red` to `blue` only between the `'m'` breakpoint and `1050px`.

```scss
.foo {
	background-color: red;

	@include breakpoint('m', 1050px) {
		background-color: blue;
	}
}
```

**Compiled CSS**

```css
.foo {
	background-color: red;
}

@media screen and (min-width: 768px) and (max-width: 1050px) {
	.foo {
		background-color: blue;
	}
}
```

## License

Code released under the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
